.\" Copyright 1998-2022 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdfimages 1 "18 Apr 2022"
.SH NAME
pdfimages \- Portable Document Format (PDF) image extractor
(version 4.04)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdfimages
[options]
.I PDF-file image-root
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdfimages
saves images from a Portable Document Format (PDF) file as Portable
Pixmap (PPM), Portable Graymap (PGM), Portable Bitmap (PBM), or JPEG
files.
.PP
Pdfimages reads the PDF file, scans one or more pages,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes one PPM, PGM, PBM, or JPEG file for each image,
.IR image-root - nnnn . xxx ,
where
.I nnnn
is the image number and
.I xxx
is the image type (.ppm, .pgm, .pbm, .jpg).
.PP
NB: pdfimages extracts the raw image data from the PDF file, without
performing any additional transforms.  Any rotation, clipping,
color inversion, etc. done by the PDF content stream is ignored.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Pdfimages reads a configuration file at startup.  It first tries to
find the user's private config file, ~/.xpdfrc.  If that doesn't
exist, it looks for a system-wide config file, typically /etc/xpdfrc
(but this location can be changed when pdfimages is built).  See the
.BR xpdfrc (5)
man page for details.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the following options can be set with configuration file
commands.  These are listed in square brackets with the description of
the corresponding command line option.
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies the first page to scan.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies the last page to scan.
.TP
.B \-j
Normally, all images are written as PBM (for monochrome images), PGM
(for grayscale images), or PPM (for color images) files.  With this
option, images in DCT format are saved as JPEG files.  All non-DCT
images are saved in PBM/PGM/PPM format as usual.  (Inline images are
always saved in PBM/PGM/PPM format.)
.TP
.B \-raw
Write all images in PDF-native formats.  Most of the formats are not
standard image formats, so this option is primarily useful as input to
a tool that generates PDF files.  (Inline images are always saved in
PBM/PGM/PPM format.)
.TP
.B \-list
Write a one-line summary to stdout for each image.  The summary
provides the image file name, the page number, the image width and
height, the horizontal and vertical resolution (DPI) as drawn, the
color space type, and the number of bits per component (BPC).
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will
bypass all security restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify the user password for the PDF file.
.TP
.B \-verbose
Print a status message (to stdout) before processing each page.
.RB "[config file: " printStatusInfo ]
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any messages or errors.
.RB "[config file: " errQuiet ]
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright and version information.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error opening a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error opening an output file.
.TP
3
Error related to PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
The pdfimages software and documentation are copyright 1998-2022 Glyph
& Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftopng (1),
.BR xpdfrc (5)
.br
.B http://www.xpdfreader.com/
