.\" Copyright 2017-2022 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdftopng 1 "18 Apr 2022"
.SH NAME
pdftopng \- Portable Document Format (PDF) to Portable Network Graphics
(PNG) converter (version 4.04)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftopng
[options]
.I PDF-file PNG-root
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdftopng
converts Portable Document Format (PDF) files to color, grayscale, or
monochrome image files in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format.
.PP
Pdftopng reads the PDF file,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes one PNG file for each page,
.IR PNG-root - nnnnnn .png,
where
.I nnnnnn
is the page number.
If
.I PNG-root
is \'-', the image is sent to stdout (this is probably only useful
when converting a single page).
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Pdftopng reads a configuration file at startup.  It first tries to
find the user's private config file, ~/.xpdfrc.  If that doesn't
exist, it looks for a system-wide config file, typically /etc/xpdfrc
(but this location can be changed when pdftopng is built).  See the
.BR xpdfrc (5)
man page for details.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the following options can be set with configuration file
commands.  These are listed in square brackets with the description of
the corresponding command line option.
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies the first page to convert.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies the last page to convert.
.TP
.BI \-r " number"
Specifies the resolution, in DPI.  The default is 150 DPI.
.TP
.B \-mono
Generate a monochrome image (instead of a color image).
.TP
.B \-gray
Generate a grayscale image (instead of a color image).
.TP
.B \-alpha
Generate an alpha channel in the PNG file.  This is only useful with
PDF files that have been constructed with a transparent background.
The \-alpha flag cannot be used with \-mono.
.TP
.BI \-rot " angle"
Rotate pages by 0 (the default), 90, 180, or 270 degrees.
.TP
.BI \-freetype " yes | no"
Enable or disable FreeType (a TrueType / Type 1 font rasterizer).
This defaults to "yes".
.RB "[config file: " enableFreeType ]
.TP
.BI \-aa " yes | no"
Enable or disable font anti-aliasing.  This defaults to "yes".
.RB "[config file: " antialias ]
.TP
.BI \-aaVector " yes | no"
Enable or disable vector anti-aliasing.  This defaults to "yes".
.RB "[config file: " vectorAntialias ]
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will
bypass all security restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify the user password for the PDF file.
.TP
.B \-verbose
Print a status message (to stdout) before processing each page.
.RB "[config file: " printStatusInfo ]
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any messages or errors.
.RB "[config file: " errQuiet ]
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright and version information.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error opening a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error opening an output file.
.TP
3
Error related to PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
The pdftopng software and documentation are copyright 1996-2022 Glyph
& Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR xpdfrc (5)
.br
.B http://www.xpdfreader.com/
