.\" Copyright 2002-2022 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH xpdfrc 5 "18 Apr 202"
.SH NAME
xpdfrc \- configuration file for Xpdf tools (version 4.04)
.SH DESCRIPTION
All of the Xpdf tools read a single configuration file.
.PP
On Linux/Unix/MacOS: if you have a
.I .xpdfrc
file in your home directory, it will be read.  Otherwise, a
system-wide configuration file will be read from
.IR /etc/xpdfrc ,
if it exists.  (This is its default location; depending on build
options, it may be placed elsewhere.)
.PP
On Windows: the file must be named
.I xpdfrc
(no leading dot, no extension), and must be placed in the same
directory as the executable (pdftotext.exe, xpdf.exe, etc.)
.PP
The xpdfrc file consists of a series of configuration options, one
per line.  Blank lines and lines starting with a \'#' (comments) are
ignored.
.PP
Arguments can be single-quoted or double-quoted, e.g., for file names
that contain spaces ("aaa bbb", 'aaa bbb').  This quoting does not
provide any escaping, so there's no way to include a double quote in a
double-quoted argument or a single quote in a single-quoted argument.
.PP

Arguments can also be at-quoted: @"aaa bbb".  At-quoted strings allow
use of the DATADIR variable, which is set to the 'data' subdirectory
in the xpdf install directory.  The percent sign (%) is an escape
character: a percent sign followed by any other character is replaced
with that character.
.PP
.RS
.nf
@"abc %"def%" ghi" --> abc "def" ghi    
@"${DATADIR}/foo"  --> ...install-dir.../data/foo
@"%${DATADIR}/foo" --> ${DATADIR}/foo
.fi
.RE
.PP
The following sections list all of the configuration options, sorted
into functional groups.  There is an examples section at the end.
.SH INCLUDE FILES
.TP
.BI include " config\-file"
Includes the specified config file.  The effect of this is equivalent
to inserting the contents of
.I config\-file
directly into the parent config file in place of the
.I include
command.  Config files can be nested arbitrarily deeply.
.SH GENERAL FONT CONFIGURATION
.TP
.BI fontFile " PDF\-font\-name font\-file"
Maps a PDF font,
.IR PDF\-font\-name ,
to a font for display or PostScript output.  The font file,
.IR font\-file ,
can be any type allowed in a PDF file.  This command can be used for
8-bit or 16-bit (CID) fonts.
.TP
.BI fontDir " dir"
Specifies a search directory for font files.  There can be multiple
fontDir commands; all of the specified directories will be searched in
order.  The font files can be Type 1 (.pfa or .pfb) or TrueType (.ttf
or .ttc); other files in the directory will be ignored.  The font file
name (not including the extension) must exactly match the PDF font
name.  This search is performed if the font name doesn't match any of
the fonts declared with the fontFile command.  There are no default
fontDir directories.
.TP
.BI fontFileCC " registry\-ordering font\-file"
Maps the
.I registry\-ordering
character collection to a font for display or PostScript output.  This
mapping is used if the font name doesn't match any of the fonts
declared with the fontFile, fontDir, psResidentFont16, or
psResidentFontCC commands.
.SH POSTSCRIPT FONT CONFIGURATION
.TP
.BR psFontPassthrough " yes | no"
If set to "yes", pass 8-bit font names through to the PostScript
output without substitution.  Fonts which are not embedded in the PDF
file are expected to be available on the printer.  This defaults to
"no".
.TP
.BI psResidentFont " PDF\-font\-name PS\-font\-name"
When the 8-bit font
.I PDF\-font\-name
is used (without embedding) in a PDF file, it will be translated to
the PostScript font
.IR PS\-font\-name ,
which is assumed to be resident in the printer.  Typically,
.I PDF\-font\-name
and
.I PS\-font\-name
are the same.  By default, only the Base-14 fonts are assumed to be
resident.
.TP
.BI psResidentFont16 " PDF\-font\-name wMode PS\-font\-name encoding"
When the 16-bit (CID) font
.I PDF\-font\-name
with writing mode
.I wMode
is used (without embedding) in a PDF file, it will be translated to
the PostScript font
.IR PS\-font\-name ,
which is assumed to be resident in the printer.  The writing mode
must be either \'H' for horizontal or \'V' for vertical.  The resident
font is assumed to use the specified encoding (which must have been
defined with the unicodeMap command).
.TP
.BI psResidentFontCC " registry\-ordering wMode PS\-font\-name encoding"
When a 16-bit (CID) font using the
.I registry\-ordering
character collection and 
.I wMode
writing mode is used (without embedding) in a PDF file, the PostScript
font,
.IR PS\-font\-name ,
is substituted for it.  The substituted font is assumed to be
resident in the printer.  The writing mode must be either \'H' for
horizontal or \'V' for vertical.  The resident font is assumed to use
the specified encoding (which must have been defined with the
unicodeMap command).
.TP
.BR psEmbedType1Fonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of Type 1 fonts in generated
PostScript.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR psEmbedTrueTypeFonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of TrueType fonts in generated
PostScript.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR psEmbedCIDTrueTypeFonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of CID TrueType fonts in generated
PostScript.  For Level 3 PostScript, this generates a CID font, for
lower levels it generates a non-CID composite font.  This defaults to
"yes".
.TP
.BR psEmbedCIDPostScriptFonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of CID PostScript fonts in
generated PostScript.  For Level 3 PostScript, this generates a CID
font, for lower levels it generates a non-CID composite font.  This
defaults to "yes".
.SH POSTSCRIPT CONTROL
.TP
.BI psPaperSize " width(pts) height(pts)"
Sets the paper size for PostScript output.  The
.I width
and
.I height
parameters give the paper size in PostScript points (1 point = 1/72
inch).
.TP
.BR psPaperSize " letter | legal | A4 | A3 | match"
Sets the paper size for PostScript output to a standard size.  The
default paper size is set when xpdf and pdftops are built, typically
to "letter" or "A4".  This can also be set to "match", which will set
the paper size to match the size specified in the PDF file.
.TP
.BR psImageableArea " llx lly urx ury"
Sets the imageable area for PostScript output.  The four integers are
the coordinates of the lower-left and upper-right corners of the
imageable region, specified in points (with the origin being the
lower-left corner of the paper).  This defaults to the full paper
size; the psPaperSize option will reset the imageable area
coordinates.
.TP
.BR psCrop " yes | no"
If set to "yes", PostScript output is cropped to the CropBox specified
in the PDF file; otherwise no cropping is done.  This defaults to
"yes".
.TP
.BR psUseCropBoxAsPage " yes | no"
If set to "yes", PostScript output treats the CropBox as the page size.
By default, this is "no", and the MediaBox is used as the page size.
.TP
.BR psExpandSmaller " yes | no"
If set to "yes", PDF pages smaller than the PostScript imageable area
are expanded to fill the imageable area.  Otherwise, no scaling is
done on smaller pages.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psShrinkLarger " yes | no"
If set to yes, PDF pages larger than the PostScript imageable area are
shrunk to fit the imageable area.  Otherwise, no scaling is done on
larger pages.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR psCenter " yes | no"
If set to yes, PDF pages smaller than the PostScript imageable area
(after any scaling) are centered in the imageable area.  Otherwise,
they are aligned at the lower-left corner of the imageable area.  This
defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR psDuplex " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the generated PostScript will set the "Duplex"
pagedevice entry.  This tells duplex-capable printers to enable
duplexing.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psLevel " level1 | level1sep | level2 | level2gray | level2sep | level3 | level3gray | level3Sep"
Sets the PostScript level to generate.  This defaults to "level2".
.TP
.BR psPreload " yes | no"
If set to "yes", PDF forms are converted to PS procedures, and image
data is preloaded.  This uses more memory in the PostScript
interpreter, but generates significantly smaller PS files in
situations where, e.g., the same image is drawn on every page of a
long document.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psOPI " yes | no"
If set to "yes", generates PostScript OPI comments for all images and
forms which have OPI information.  This option is only available if
the Xpdf tools were compiled with OPI support.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psASCIIHex " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the ASCIIHexEncode filter will be used instead of
ASCII85Encode for binary data.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psLZW " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the LZWEncode filter will be used for lossless
compression in PostScript output; if set to "no", the RunLengthEncode
filter will be used instead.  LZW generates better compression
(smaller PS files), but may not be supported by some printers.  This
defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR psUncompressPreloadedImages " yes | no"
If set to "yes", all preloaded images in PS files will uncompressed.
If set to "no", the original compressed images will be used when
possible.  The "yes" setting is useful to work around certain buggy
PostScript interpreters.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psMinLineWidth " float"
Set the minimum line width, in points, for PostScript output.  The
default value is 0 (no minimum).
.TP
.BR psRasterResolution " float"
Set the resolution (in dpi) for rasterized pages in PostScript output.
(Pdftops will rasterize pages which use transparency.)  This defaults
to 300.
.TP
.BR psRasterMono " yes | no"
If set to "yes", rasterized pages in PS files will be monochrome
(8-bit gray) instead of color.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psRasterSliceSize " pixels"
When rasterizing pages, pdftops splits the page into horizontal
"slices", to limit memory usage.  This option sets the maximum slice
size, in pixels.  This defaults to 20000000 (20 million).
.TP
.BR psAlwaysRasterize " yes | no"
If set to "yes", all PostScript output will be rasterized.  This
defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psNeverRasterize " yes | no"
Pdftops rasterizes an pages that use transparency (because PostScript
doesn't support transparency).  If psNeverRasterize is set to "yes",
rasterization is disabled: pages will never be rasterized, even if
they contain transparency.  This will likely result in incorrect
output for PDF files that use transparency, and a warning message to
that effect will be printed.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BI fontDir " dir"
See the description above, in the DISPLAY FONTS section.
.SH TEXT CONTROL AND CHARACTER MAPPING
.TP
.BI textEncoding " encoding\-name"
Sets the encoding to use for text output.  (This can be overridden
with the "\-enc" switch on the command line.)  The
.I encoding\-name
must be defined with the unicodeMap command (see above).  This
defaults to "Latin1".
.TP
.BR textEOL " unix | dos | mac"
Sets the end-of-line convention to use for text output.  The options
are:
.nf

    unix = LF
    dos  = CR+LF
    mac  = CR

.fi
(This can be overridden with the "\-eol" switch on the command line.)
The default value is based on the OS where xpdf and pdftotext were
built.
.TP
.BR textPageBreaks " yes | no"
If set to "yes", text extraction will insert page breaks (form feed
characters) between pages.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR textKeepTinyChars " yes | no"
If set to "yes", text extraction will keep all characters.  If set to
"no", text extraction will discard tiny (smaller than 3 point)
characters after the first 50000 per page, avoiding extremely slow run
times for PDF files that use special fonts to do shading or
cross-hatching.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BI nameToUnicode " map\-file"
Specifies a file with the mapping from character names to Unicode.
This is used to handle PDF fonts that have valid encodings but no
ToUnicode entry.  Each line of a nameToUnicode file looks like this:

.I "    " hex\-string name

The
.I hex\-string
is the Unicode (UCS-2) character index, and
.I name
is the corresponding character name.  Multiple nameToUnicode files can
be used; if a character name is given more than once, the code in the
last specified file is used.  There is a built-in default
nameToUnicode table with all of Adobe's standard character names.
.TP
.BI cidToUnicode " registry\-ordering map\-file"
Specifies the file with the mapping from character collection to
Unicode.  Each line of a cidToUnicode file represents one character:

.I "    " hex\-string

The
.I hex\-string
is the Unicode (UCS-2) index for that character.  The first line maps
CID 0, the second line CID 1, etc.  File size is determined by size of
the character collection.  Only one file is allowed per character
collection; the last specified file is used.  There are no built-in
cidToUnicode mappings.
.TP
.BI unicodeToUnicode " font\-name\-substring map\-file"
This is used to work around PDF fonts which have incorrect Unicode
information.  It specifies a file which maps from the given
(incorrect) Unicode indexes to the correct ones.  The mapping will be
used for any font whose name contains
.IR font\-name\-substring .
Each line of a unicodeToUnicode file represents one Unicode character:

.RI "    " in\-hex " " out\-hex1 " " out\-hex2 " ..."

The
.I in\-hex
field is an input (incorrect) Unicode index, and the rest of the
fields are one or more output (correct) Unicode indexes.  Each
occurrence of
.I in\-hex
will be converted to the specified output sequence.
.TP
.BI unicodeRemapping " remap\-file"
Remap Unicode characters when doing text extraction.  This specifies a
file that maps from a particular Unicode index to zero or more
replacement Unicode indexes.  Each line of the remap file represents
one Unicode character:

.RI "    " in\-hex " " out\-hex1 " " out\-hex2 " ..."

Any Unicode characters not listed will be left unchanged.  This
function is typically used to remap things like non-breaking spaces,
soft hyphens, ligatures, etc.
.TP
.BI unicodeMap " encoding\-name map\-file"
Specifies the file with mapping from Unicode to
.IR encoding\-name .
These encodings are used for text output (see below).  Each line of a
unicodeMap file represents a range of one or more Unicode characters
which maps linearly to a range in the output encoding:
.nf

.I "    " in\-start\-hex in\-end\-hex out\-start\-hex

.fi
Entries for single characters can be abbreviated to:
.nf

.I "    " in\-hex out\-hex

.fi
The
.I in\-start\-hex
and
.I in\-end\-hex
fields (or the single
.I in\-hex
field) specify the Unicode range.  The
.I out\-start\-hex
field (or the
.I out\-hex
field) specifies the start of the output encoding range.  The length
of the
.I out\-start\-hex
(or
.IR out\-hex )
string determines the length of the output characters (e.g., UTF-8
uses different numbers of bytes to represent characters in different
ranges).  Entries must be given in increasing Unicode order.  Only one
file is allowed per encoding; the last specified file is used.  The
.IR Latin1 ,
.IR ASCII7 ,
.IR Symbol ,
.IR ZapfDingbats ,
.IR UTF-8 ,
and
.I UCS-2
encodings are predefined.
.TP
.BI cMapDir " registry\-ordering dir"
Specifies a search directory,
.IR dir ,
for CMaps for the
.I registry\-ordering
character collection.  There can be multiple directories for a
particular collection.  There are no default CMap directories.
.TP
.BI toUnicodeDir " dir"
Specifies a search directory,
.IR dir ,
for ToUnicode CMaps.  There can be multiple ToUnicode directories.
There are no default ToUnicode directories.
.TP
.BI mapNumericCharNames " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the Xpdf tools will attempt to map various numeric
character names sometimes used in font subsets.  In some cases this
leads to usable text, and in other cases it leads to gibberish --
there is no way for Xpdf to tell.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BI mapUnknownCharNames " yes | no"
If set to "yes", and mapNumericCharNames is set to "no", the Xpdf
tools will apply a simple pass-through mapping (Unicode index =
character code) for all unrecognized glyph names.  (For CID fonts,
setting mapNumericCharNames to "no" is unnecessary.)  In some cases,
this leads to usable text, and in other cases it leads to gibberish --
there is no way for Xpdf to tell.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BI mapExtTrueTypeFontsViaUnicode " yes | no"
When rasterizing text using an external TrueType font, there are two
options for handling character codes.  If
mapExtTrueTypeFontsViaUnicode is set to "yes", Xpdf will use the font
encoding/ToUnicode info to map character codes to Unicode, and then
use the font's Unicode cmap to map Unicode to GIDs.  If
mapExtTrueTypeFontsViaUnicode is set to "no", Xpdf will assume the
character codes are GIDs (i.e., use an identity mapping).  This
defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BI useTrueTypeUnicodeMapping " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the Xpdf tools will use the Unicode encoding
information in TrueType fonts (16-bit only), if avaiable, to override
the PDF ToUnicode maps.  Otherwise, the ToUnicode maps are always used
when present.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BI dropFont " font-name"
Drop all text drawn in the specified font.  To drop text drawn in
unnamed fonts, use:
.nf

    dropFont ""

.fi
There can be any number of dropFont commands.
.SH RASTERIZER SETTINGS
.TP
.BR enableFreeType " yes | no"
Enables or disables use of FreeType (a TrueType / Type 1 font
rasterizer).  This is only relevant if the Xpdf tools were built with
FreeType support.  ("enableFreeType" replaces the old
"freetypeControl" option.)  This option defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR disableFreeTypeHinting " yes | no"
If this is set to "yes", FreeType hinting will be forced off.  This
option defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR antialias " yes | no"
Enables or disables font anti-aliasing in the PDF rasterizer.  This
option affects all font rasterizers.  ("antialias" replaces the
anti-aliasing control provided by the old "t1libControl" and
"freetypeControl" options.)  This default to "yes".
.TP
.BR vectorAntialias " yes | no"
Enables or disables anti-aliasing of vector graphics in the PDF
rasterizer.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR imageMaskAntialias " yes | no"
Enables or disables anti-aliasing of image masks (when downsampling or
upsampling) in the PDF rasterizer.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR antialiasPrinting " yes | no"
If this is "yes", bitmaps sent to the printer will be antialiased
(according to the "antialias" and "vectorAntialias" settings).  If
this is "no", printed bitmaps will not be antialiased.  This defaults
to "no".
.TP
.BR strokeAdjust " yes | no | cad"
Sets the stroke adjustment mode.  If set to "no", no stroke adjustment
will be done.  If set to "yes", normal stroke adjustment will be done:
horizontal and vertical lines will be moved by up to half a pixel to
make them look cleaner when vector anti-aliasing is enabled.  If set
to "cad", a slightly different stroke adjustment algorithm will be
used to ensure that lines of the same original width will always have
the same adjusted width (at the expense of allowing gaps and overlaps
between adjacent lines).  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR forceAccurateTiling " yes | no"
If this is set to "yes", the TilingType is forced to 2 (no distortion)
for all tiling patterns, regardless of the setting in the pattern
dictionary.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR screenType " dispersed | clustered | stochasticClustered"
Sets the halftone screen type, which will be used when generating a
monochrome (1-bit) bitmap.  The three options are dispersed-dot
dithering, clustered-dot dithering (with a round dot and 45-degree
screen angle), and stochastic clustered-dot dithering.  By default,
"stochasticClustered" is used for resolutions of 300 dpi and higher,
and "dispersed" is used for resolutions lower then 300 dpi.
.TP
.BI screenSize " integer"
Sets the size of the (square) halftone screen threshold matrix.  By
default, this is 4 for dispersed-dot dithering, 10 for clustered-dot
dithering, and 100 for stochastic clustered-dot dithering.
.TP
.BI screenDotRadius " integer"
Sets the halftone screen dot radius.  This is only used when
screenType is set to stochasticClustered, and it defaults to 2.  In
clustered-dot mode, the dot radius is half of the screen size.
Dispersed-dot dithering doesn't have a dot radius.
.TP
.BI screenGamma " float"
Sets the halftone screen gamma correction parameter.  Gamma values
greater than 1 make the output brighter; gamma values less than 1 make
it darker.  The default value is 1.
.TP
.BI screenBlackThreshold " float"
When halftoning, all values below this threshold are forced to solid
black.  This parameter is a floating point value between 0 (black) and
1 (white).  The default value is 0.
.TP
.BI screenWhiteThreshold " float"
When halftoning, all values above this threshold are forced to solid
white.  This parameter is a floating point value between 0 (black) and
1 (white).  The default value is 1.
.TP
.BI minLineWidth " float"
Set the minimum line width, in device pixels.  This affects the
rasterizer only, not the PostScript converter (except when it uses
rasterization to handle transparency).  The default value is 0 (no
minimum).
.TP
.BI enablePathSimplification " yes | no"
If set to "yes", simplify paths by removing points where it won't make
a significant difference to the shape.  The default value is "no".
.TP
.BI overprintPreview " yes | no"
If set to "yes", generate overprint preview output, honoring the
OP/op/OPM settings in the PDF file.  Ignored for non-CMYK output.  The
default value is "no".
.SH VIEWER SETTINGS
These settings only apply to the Xpdf GUI PDF viewer.
.TP
.BR initialZoom " \fIpercentage\fR | page | width"
Sets the initial zoom factor.  A number specifies a zoom percentage,
where 100 means 72 dpi.  You may also specify \'page', to fit the page
to the window size, or \'width', to fit the page width to the window
width.
.TP
.BI defaultFitZoom " percentage"
If xpdf is started with fit-page or fit-width zoom and no window
geometry, it will calculate a desired window size based on the PDF
page size and this defaultFitZoom value.  I.e., the window size will
be chosen such that exactly one page will fit in the window at this
zoom factor (which must be a percentage).  The default value is
based on the screen resolution.
.TP
.BR initialDisplayMode " single | continuous | sideBySideSingle | sideBySideContinuous | horizontalContinuous"
Sets the initial display mode.  The default setting is "continuous".
.TP
.BI initialToolbarState " yes | no"
If set to "yes", xpdf opens with the toolbar visible.  If set to "no",
xpdf opens with the toolbar hidden.  The default is "yes".
.TP
.BI initialSidebarState " yes | no"
If set to "yes", xpdf opens with the sidebar (tabs, outline, etc.)
visible.  If set to "no", xpdf opens with the sidebar collapsed.  The
default is "yes".
.TP
.BI initialSidebarWidth " width"
Sets the initial sidebar width, in pixels.  This is only relevant if
initialSidebarState is "yes".  The default value is zero, which tells
xpdf to use an internal default size.
.TP
.BR initialSelectMode " block | linear"
Sets the initial selection mode.  The default setting is "linear".
.TP
.BI paperColor " color"
Set the "paper color", i.e., the background of the page display.  The
color can be #RRGGBB (hexadecimal) or a named color.  This option will
not work well with PDF files that do things like filling in white
behind the text.
.TP
.BI matteColor " color"
Set the matte color, i.e., the color used for background outside the
actual page area.  The color can be #RRGGBB (hexadecimal) or a named
color.
.TP
.BI fullScreenMatteColor " color"
Set the matte color for full-screen mode.  The color can be #RRGGBB
(hexadecimal) or a named color.
.TP
.BI selectionColor " color"
Set the selection color.  The color can be #RRGGBB (hexadecimal) or a
named color.
.TP
.BI reverseVideoInvertImages " yes | no"
If set to "no", xpdf's reverse-video mode inverts text and vector
graphic content, but not images.  If set to "yes", xpdf inverts images
as well.  The default is "no".
.TP
.BI popupMenuCmd " title command ..."
Add a command to the popup menu.
.I Title
is the text to be displayed in the menu.
.I Command
is an Xpdf command (see the COMMANDS section of the
.BR xpdf (1)
man page for details).  Multiple commands are separated by whitespace.
.TP
.BI maxTileWidth " pixels"
Set the maximum width of tiles to be used by xpdf when rasterizing
pages.  This defaults to 1500.
.TP
.BI maxTileHeight " pixels"
Set the maximum height of tiles to be used by xpdf when rasterizing
pages.  This defaults to 1500.
.TP
.BI tileCacheSize " tiles"
Set the maximum number of tiles to be cached by xpdf when rasterizing
pages.  This defaults to 10.
.TP
.BI workerThreads " numThreads"
Set the number of worker threads to be used by xpdf when rasterizing
pages.  This defaults to 1.
.TP
.BI launchCommand " command"
Sets the command executed when you click on a "launch"-type link.  The
intent is for the command to be a program/script which determines the
file type and runs the appropriate viewer.  The command line will
consist of the file to be launched, followed by any parameters
specified with the link.  Do not use "%s" in "command".  By default,
this is unset, and Xpdf will simply try to execute the file (after
prompting the user).
.TP
.BI movieCommand " command"
Sets the command executed when you click on a movie annotation.  The
string "%s" will be replaced with the movie file name.  This has no
default value.
.TP
.BI defaultPrinter " printer"
Sets the default printer used in the viewer's print dialog.
.TP
.BI bind " modifiers-key context command ..."
Add a key or mouse button binding.
.I Modifiers
can be zero or more of:
.nf

    shift-
    ctrl-
    alt-

.fi
.I Key
can be a regular ASCII character, or any one of:
.nf

    space
    tab
    return
    enter
    backspace
    esc
    insert
    delete
    home
    end
    pgup
    pgdn
    left / right / up / down                (arrow keys)
    f1 .. f35                               (function keys)
    mousePress1 .. mousePress7              (mouse buttons)
    mouseRelease1 .. mouseRelease7          (mouse buttons)
    mouseClick1 .. mouseClick7              (mouse buttons)
    mouseDoubleClick1 .. mouseDoubleClick7  (mouse buttons)
    mouseTripleClick1 .. mouseTripleClick7  (mouse buttons)

.fi
.I Context
is either "any" or a comma-separated combination of:
.nf

    fullScreen / window       (full screen mode on/off)
    continuous / singlePage   (continuous mode on/off)
    overLink / offLink        (mouse over link or not)
    scrLockOn / scrLockOff    (scroll lock on/off)

.fi
The context string can include only one of each pair in the above
list.

.I Command
is an Xpdf command (see the COMMANDS section of the
.BR xpdf (1)
man page for details).  Multiple commands are separated by whitespace.

The bind command replaces any existing binding, but only if it was
defined for the exact same modifiers, key, and context.  All tokens
(modifiers, key, context, commands) are case-sensitive.

Example key bindings:
.nf

    # bind ctrl-a in any context to the nextPage
    # command
    bind ctrl-a any nextPage

    # bind uppercase B, when in continuous mode
    # with scroll lock on, to the reload command
    # followed by the prevPage command
    bind B continuous,scrLockOn reload prevPage

.fi
See the
.BR xpdf (1)
man page for more examples.
.TP
.BI unbind " modifiers-key context"
Removes a key binding established with the bind command.  This is most
useful to remove default key bindings before establishing new ones
(e.g., if the default key binding is given for "any" context, and you
want to create new key bindings for multiple contexts).
.TP
.BI tabStateFile " path"
Sets the file used by the loadTabState and saveTabState commands (see
the
.BR xpdf (1)
man page for more information).
.SH MISCELLANEOUS SETTINGS
.TP
.BI drawAnnotations " yes | no"
If set to "no", annotations will not be drawn or printed.  The default
value is "yes".
.TP
.BI drawFormFields " yes | no"
If set to "no", form fields will not be drawn or printed.  The default
value is "yes".
.TP
.BI enableXFA " yes | no"
If an XFA form is present, and this option is set to "yes", Xpdf will
parse the XFA form and use certain XFA information to override
AcroForm information.  If set to "no", the XFA form will not be read.
The default value is "yes".
.TP
.BI savePageNumbers " yes | no"
If set to "yes", xpdf will save the current page numbers of all open
files in ~/.xpdf.pages when the files are closed (or when quitting
xpdf).  Next time the file is opened, the last-viewed page number will
be restored.  The default value is "yes".
.TP
.BI printCommands " yes | no"
If set to "yes", drawing commands are printed as they're executed
(useful for debugging).  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BI printStatusInfo
If set to "yes", print a status message (to stdout) before each page
is processed.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BI errQuiet " yes | no"
If set to "yes", this suppresses all error and warning messages from
all of the Xpdf tools.  This defaults to "no".
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is a sample xpdfrc file.
.nf

# from the Thai support package
nameToUnicode /usr/local/share/xpdf/Thai.nameToUnicode

# from the Japanese support package
cidToUnicode Adobe-Japan1 /usr/local/share/xpdf/Adobe-Japan1.cidToUnicode
unicodeMap   JISX0208     /usr/local/share/xpdf/JISX0208.unicodeMap
cMapDir      Adobe-Japan1 /usr/local/share/xpdf/cmap/Adobe-Japan1

# use the Base-14 Type 1 fonts from ghostscript
fontFile Times-Roman           /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021003l.pfb
fontFile Times-Italic          /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021023l.pfb
fontFile Times-Bold            /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021004l.pfb
fontFile Times-BoldItalic      /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021024l.pfb
fontFile Helvetica             /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019003l.pfb
fontFile Helvetica-Oblique     /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019023l.pfb
fontFile Helvetica-Bold        /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019004l.pfb
fontFile Helvetica-BoldOblique /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019024l.pfb
fontFile Courier               /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022003l.pfb
fontFile Courier-Oblique       /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022023l.pfb
fontFile Courier-Bold          /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022004l.pfb
fontFile Courier-BoldOblique   /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022024l.pfb
fontFile Symbol                /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/s050000l.pfb
fontFile ZapfDingbats          /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/d050000l.pfb

# use the Bakoma Type 1 fonts
# (this assumes they happen to be installed in /usr/local/fonts/bakoma)
fontDir /usr/local/fonts/bakoma

# set some PostScript options
psPaperSize          letter
psDuplex             no
psLevel              level2
psEmbedType1Fonts    yes
psEmbedTrueTypeFonts yes

# assume that the PostScript printer has the Univers and
# Univers-Bold fonts
psResidentFont Univers      Univers
psResidentFont Univers-Bold Univers-Bold

# set the text output options
textEncoding UTF-8
textEOL      unix

# misc options
enableFreeType  yes
launchCommand   viewer-script

.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/xpdfrc
This is the default location for the system-wide configuration file.
Depending on build options, it may be placed elsewhere.
.TP
.B $HOME/.xpdfrc
This is the user's configuration file.  If it exists, it will be read
in place of the system-wide file.
.SH AUTHOR
The Xpdf software and documentation are copyright 1996-2022 Glyph &
Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftopng (1),
.BR pdfimages (1)
.br
.B http://www.xpdfreader.com/
